[OSDOCS#17160] using-ruby CQA (#117479)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/templates-rails-writing-application.adoc

[id="templates-rails-writing-application_{context}"]
= Writing your application

[role="_abstract"]

> You can create a Ruby on Rails application that uses PostgreSQL by installing the Rails gem, configuring the `database.yml` file, and initializing the development and test databases. This ensures your application can interact with PostgreSQL in both development and test environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a Ruby on Rails application that uses PostgreSQL. Install the Rails gem, configure the `database.yml` file, and initialize the development and test databases. These steps ensure that your application can interact with PostgreSQL in both development and test environments.
```

1 gem installed
----

. Create a new application with PostgreSQL as your database by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rails new rails-app --database=postgresql
----

. Change into your new application directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cd rails-app
----

> . If you already have an application, ensure the PostgreSQL adapter gem (`pg`) is present in your `Gemfile`. If not, edit your `Gemfile` by adding the gem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you already have an application, ensure that the PostgreSQL adapter gem (`pg`) is present in your `Gemfile`. If not, edit your `Gemfile` by adding the gem:
```
